hitchhike place south of Dallas. Well I'll take
you. He had a driver. I don't know who it was but I
kind of, I don't know what he did but it didn't
sound, anyway.
You just never knew, but it usually took about five
hours. We'd leave about eight or nine in the
morning, and we would be lucky to be back by noon,
one o'clock, something. Did you ever have any bad
Aggie hitchhiking experience? None. All right,
you're giving the same answer everybody else has.
You know, I even got a ride one night at 1 a.m. in
Odessa, Texas, coming out here. A guy had just
gotten married with his wife in a brand new car,
gave two of us a ride at 1 a.m.
Boy, that day is long gone. Isn't it? And see,
today's students, they can't believe that, that
you hitchhiked and it was safe. The only things I,
and that's one of my standard questions about
hitchhiking. Occasionally somebody will say the
guy was drinking too much or was driving too fast.
One guy, he was in a hurry to get to Houston because
his wife or his girlfriend was playing around with
somebody else and he was going down there to beat
that guy up, but he let them out early. and nobody's
ever mentioned any wreck or accident or nothing
like that. All right, back to the daily routine.
Class at 8 o'clock. What did you do between classes
if you had an hour to spare without a class? It
varied. A lot of guys would study. I never seemed to
do that. I went to the MSC a lot, or I'd go back to the
dorm room. took care of whatever. You had to get
your laundry out and ready to go or you needed just
your personal stuff, haircut, whatever. I didn't
have very many hours off. When you're taking 20
hours, you don't have many hours off. You
marched to all three meals, and it was in Duncan?
No. Or Sabeasa? Sabeasa your freshman year. And
then when we moved to the new area, it was called,
and then it was over at Duncan. In the MSC, where did
you spend any time? Well, it was a little different
than it is now. The original part up front is about
the same, but as you were going what would be east,
The post office was right in that front corner up
there. And then you went down that long ramp and
there was a snack bar, kind of a coffee shop. And
none of the stuff that's in the back, all the
bookstores and all that was there. And I used to go
get something to eat, whatever treat, if I could
afford to have something. as opposed to eating at
Dunkin'. If you had an afternoon with a couple of
hours free, what did you do with free time in the
afternoon? I never remember.
I remember having, you know, like the cut for the
bonfire. I don't know how we didn't kill
ourselves. Raining, slippery, carrying those
logs out of there. And I remember I used to have to do
it on Saturday and Sunday, I think it was, because I
didn't have any free time. About how long did the
bonfire work? I think we started in October, as I
recall. Do you remember what direction from the
campus? You know, I've often thought about that.
Where were those trees we were cutting down? They
put us on trucks and cars and took us out there. And
you all were cutting them down? Well, I wasn't. but
we were hauling them out. What were they using to
cut them with then? Axes. Okay, that's what I
thought. Do you remember anybody getting hurt? I
never remember anybody getting hurt. Not to say
they didn't. Usually there wasn't any. And
Bonfire was then held on the drill field. It was in
the drill field, and that was one of the big
tragedies while I was there, was those two Aggie
graduates who were Navy pilots that buzzed the
bonfire and dove and the wings came off and they
bore a hole right there on Welborn Road. Do you
remember any pranks or anything? Somebody from
Texas came over and tried to drop something on it
one time, but we didn't have, you know, there was
always rumors. They're on their way to burn the
bonfire. All right, in the dining hall, any good
bull there? Any pranks that you or anybody else
tried in the dining hall? Oh, well, you know, we
tried to always, of course, freshmen couldn't
have dessert. We were always trying to steal it.
Did y'all have cush questions? Yep. Do you
remember any of them? No, I mean, I don't remember
what they were. One that you can pass on is my
favorite. How many stars are there in the Texas
flag? One as far as I know. No, there's two. There's
one on each side. And if you say two, you say, no,
it's one. It goes through both ways. So there is no
credit. Let's see. In class, how did you and your
buddies behave? Oh, I think we were, everybody
there was really very respectful, a lot more than
even high school. In those days, high school was
perfectly orderly. I think the people that were at
A&M when I was there felt one, they were fortunate
to be there, and two, they needed that degree. And
we buckled down. We didn't. If you wanted to get
away for an hour or something to kind of go and just
be by yourself, not be interrupted, where would
you have gone? Probably my dorm room. Maybe I was, I
guess there were some guys down there that were
taking the degree programs that didn't require
the number of hours or whatever. And I know a lot of
them went down to, there was some kind of quarry
south of, they used to go down there and go
swimming. I never had the opportunity to do that.
Nobody yet remembers where it was, but they all
remember going. It was somewhere south Wellborn
Road, and then a little west toward the river. And
they go down there in Skinny Dip. Nobody has
described anything going on that was really bad.
Yep, drink some beer, but nobody's ever talked
about anything with a bunch of women or anything
like that. You know, I never had, I never, ever, Had
my wife come to A&M. I never had the money. I never
went to a dance at A&M. Really? No. All right. Do you
remember your freshman year? We had the cotton
ball. It was a big dance. But wait. Let's go back to
football season. There was a court trip to either
Dallas or Fort Worth. We had my freshman year, and
I've got pictures of that. We went to Fort Worth for
the TCU game, and we went to Houston. Wait a minute.
Yeah, that's right. Yeah, Houston. Either
Houston or Austin. Well, I think it was Houston
that year. Okay. And then the following year we
went to Dallas and Austin. All right. When up there
that freshman year, did you bring her down to the
game? Well, there were so many Aggies dating so
many Tessies that they had a bus that brought them
all down right to the stadium. Mm-hmm. Now, who
paid for that bus? She did. She did? And then did
y'all go back to Dentonville? No, we spent, we were
lucky. Her roommate was from Fort Worth. And we
had, one of the guys in the outfit was from Fort
Worth, obviously. We all, four or five of us stayed
with him. And we did go out. I forget where we went
that Saturday night. And then she went back and we
went back. And do you remember any, on that court
trip or any others, do you remember anything going
on that really shouldn't have? Not that I know of.
Pretty tame in those days by today's standards.
Well, oh yeah. That's the only time she ever came to
a court trip game. Even in Dallas, I don't think
that would have been in my sophomore year for
whatever reason. She wasn't there. And, you know,
we just went up and marched, went to the game, and
then I went back. Now, did you tell her about the
Aggie tradition after Aggies score a touchdown?
We still do that even on the TV games, right today.
And our kids think we're crazy. And, all right,
where did you spend the night? Did you have up
there? Well, somebody in my freshman outfit was
from Fort Worth, and we stayed at his house. And
there would be dozens? Well, there were, I think,
four or five of us there. Did you hitchhike up there
and back, probably? Oh, yeah. Or somebody had a
car. Very few people had cars, but I think a few of
them did, and I think we got a ride up there. I
remember going to Houston the first time. We went
on the train. The Owl, or whatever it was called,
went through there. We went on the train. How did,
on a court trip, how did you feel as you were wearing
that uniform? Oh, proud as a peacock. Why? I don't
know. But I, by golly, we were different.
As a person who did not go to A&M as an
undergraduate, I think that's part of the
building of the spirit. It is that being a part of
the group. It is unbelievable. Oh, yes, yes. Was
there a fish day in your time? I don't think there
was. I don't remember that. Back in the earlier,
before the war, there was a fish day where for one
day the fish ran everything. Oh, yeah, that
wasn't, no, that wasn't. All right, you came home
Christmas. I came home Christmas, and in those
days, of course, finals were not until after
Christmas. I came home Christmas, and then right
after New Year's we went back. You had a couple of
days off at Thanksgiving, of course, but I stayed
for the game and didn't come home. Wouldn't have
anyway because I had no way to get home that short.
And then you had Easter, which was about close to a
week or four or five days, and I came home. My
sophomore year for Easter, as I recall. I don't
think I ever came home for Thanksgiving. During
that first year or maybe two years, how did you and
your family communicate? By letter. How often?
About once a week. It was unheard of to make
long-distance calls. And if you got a
long-distance call, and I got one or two, they
would call to the MSC. And then they'd send a runner
over to your dorm, and you'd call back. And where
was the telephone in your dorm? You know, there was
one, but I don't know where it was. It was somewhere
down at the end of the hallway, I think. No, they had
it in the day room. Oh, okay. And I think that was
true in all the dorms. I never got a call there. The
two I got, I had to go to the MSC. Then at the end of
your freshman year, what did you feel like when you
went through final review? Oh, I thought, man, I
made it. I made it. That's the greatest feeling in
the world. I survived, and I'm better than all
those people that quit. And were you then pleased,
proud that you had not dropped out? That's right. I
have accomplished something. You come home that
summer? Mm-hmm. What did you do? I had worked the
previous summer. I worked, I guess that summer I
worked for Southern Union Gas as a draftsman here.
And did you ever think about changing your major?
No. And how did you, why did you pick that major in
the first place? Well, as I said, my dad was with the
General Electric Company. He had not had
the ability and the privilege of going to college.
And he said, of course, in those days, the General
Electric Company revolved around electrical
engineers. And that was the one thing, which is
kind of irony, he said, you need to get a degree. I
had decided I wanted to be an electrician. He said,
you need to get a degree, and you need to go to work
for the General Electric Company. They take care
of you. So that's what you thought you were going to
be, as a corporate engineer?
I graduated in 55. I had to get a deferment. In those
days, you had to go in, and I was scheduled to report
to pre-flight, and I got a deferment. My wife was
teaching school to get a master's degree. During
graduate school, I said, you know, I'm not sure
that I really like this big company corporate
deal, and I wanted to kind of look around, but I
never really got into it. And then all of a sudden,
I've graduated with a master's degree, and GE had
made me an offer the first time, They raised it, and
my dad says, you need to take that. Of course, at
that point, Rick, our oldest son,
was born the night I got my degree, my master's
degree. In fact, I had to ride in my cap and gown on a
bicycle to graduation because I'd been banned
from the campus. I had this old clunker of a car. And
I used to sell TV antennas. I ran a little want ad in
the Bryan Eagle. And to make a little extra money,
in those days, there was a station in Waco and one in
Houston. And you could put up a big 30, 40 foot
telescopic mast and an antenna and a rotor. And I
used to advertise and sell those installed. And I
had this old car with a rack on top and carry that
stuff. And, of course, I was out doing, trying to do
that. And then I pull up and park in the faculty lot
behind the EE building. And after I got about three
tickets, why, you can't drive on campus anymore.
Back to undergraduate days.
the main facilities for you and all your buddies,
there was the MSC. Did you encounter Wayne Stark?
Did you get acquainted with him? What kind of guy
was he? I don't, I mean, just as a student, great guy
as far as I could tell. Superb. Yeah. Were you
involved in any major extracurricular group? No,
the only thing I was in, what is it, Phi Eta Sigma and
Tau Beta Pi. And Ross volunteers, and I, you know,
that was it. As far as you know, how did one become an
RV? Did you? In those days, one day they called me
over and
it was the academic building. All those deals. I
didn't know that much about the RVs, in fact. No,
like you didn't go say, I want to be considered. You
didn't submit an... No. They said, you've been
selected. And as far as you know, people were
selected on the basis of... I guess merit. I don't
know how they were selected. And you were doing
well also in your corps. Yeah, yeah. And in those
days how many juniors were selected for Army? What
were they? There were three companies, three
companies and in each company four times about 40,
there must have been about 120. So out of that,
probably 60% of them were juniors.
Do you have any idea whether there was any
favoritism? I have no idea. I've never heard of
anybody who thought there was. I don't know how we
were selected. So if there was some secret
backroom deal on it, I wasn't aware of it. Did you
ever go to the Quack Shack? Were you ever sick? No,
but it was right there across from Walton. They had
that old old military 4x4 ambulance. I went over
there one time and I had a sore throat and you know
the stories about it were unbelievable and they
had that old guy that was a doctor, remember that?
But I never had to go there. I never really got sick
of any of them under the cold. Alright, Guyon Hall.
Oh yeah, used to go to Guyon. That was, I guess that
was the only thing That and go downtown to the movie
in downtown Bryan. When we were there for the Iowa
State game, Marilyn and I drove downtown. Those
theaters are kind of there, but they're not
theaters anymore. In fact, old Tom Dollahyte and I
would, one of us would scale the back wall up into
the window in the back, slip in, go down, and open
that back door for four or five of us to get in. And to
go in? And it was only a dime to go, but we didn't have
a dime. Now what kind of pranks did Aggies do during
a guy in the movie? None while I was there. Oh, I
thought you all yelled and hooted. Well, nothing.
Not that I remember. Because sometimes in other
years then they would make noise apparently and
yell and shout. Along with the movie? Yeah, along
with the movie. Did you go much to the campus
theater? Over there, yeah. Yeah, in fact, my
roommate, who didn't, he couldn't get a pass at
physical, so he had to get transferred to tech
after our sophomore year, George D. Sang, which
the architect, Carol Doble, and George, our
freshman year, that was their project to do, in
architecture, to do one of these little models of a
remodeling, and that George and I grew up together
and I had the top bunk and he had the bottom bunk and
he was working on that model and he just finished
it. Uh oh. And he had it on the footlocker at the end
of the bed. Uh oh. And I crawl up, my clothes in the
top, take my shoes off, throw them over the end and
right down through the model.
Were there any, while you were there, any special
groups or speakers or campus visitors you
remember in either G. Raleigh or Guyon? Well, you
got to realize that, let's see, G. Raleigh was
built
the basketball arena, G. Raleigh wasn't there. Is
that right? Okay. I forgot. We had the old red brick
building right there. What was that called?
Oh, boy. You know where the bat is? Yeah, yeah.
That's where we went to basketball. Okay. Were
there any celebrity visitors, speakers,
performers? Well,
this was when I was in graduate school, I guess. I
remember Marilyn and I went over to Guy and then,
oh, one of the movie stars or something, a speaker.
And the big bands were no longer coming to the- We
had a couple of them my freshman year. They played,
one of them played at the, I remember the Grove, for
one of the, I think the Cotton Ball. But I didn't go.
Religious activities on the campus. Did you
attend any? The Episcopal Church there on South
Gate is still there. Yeah, yeah. About how many
students went over there, do you? Twenty,
twenty-five, something like that. Do you
remember Religious Emphasis Week in the spring?
No. Okay. Here's an important question. Describe
the student body in general.
Well, I think the most important word is
close-knit. I think the longer they were there, if
you finished primarily that first semester, if
you lasted until January, it almost became like a
religion and like a family. What made it so?
Because everybody endured the same thing. And
I think while there was a lot of different
backgrounds and there was a certain amount of
spread, let's say, in the economic ladder, there
wasn't all that much. There was a few kids there
that had money, maybe from a couple of oil families
or a lot of ranching families, but you'd never know
it. They may have had a car. Everybody was pretty
close-knit. I don't think that was true at other
universities. I think you're right.
Geographically, where were they from? Well, most
of them, I'd say 90 percent of them were from Texas.
Okay. But then within Texas, were there?
Primarily from central, south, east Texas. There
weren't that many from west Texas. Was there both
town and country?
Yes, obviously, but I can't tell you whether there
was more rural when there were city or not. But I
would say it would be pretty hard not to have a
predominance of major metropolitan areas. I'm
guessing, I don't know. And were there Catholic
and Protestant and Jewish? A close friend of mine
was Jewish, and his father was the merchant there
in Junction, Texas, had the little clothing
store. Didn't, I mean... But El Paso is that way.
We've got a diverse community and nobody even
thinks about that. That's right. Did it matter?
No. Why didn't it? I don't know. It didn't matter
here to me so it didn't matter to me down there. I
think it's because everybody went through the
same experience. That's right. In that era did
almost everybody have a nickname or was it
beginning to pass? I don't remember too many of
them having nicknames. In fact, I had a nickname
and got rid of it down
there. Alright, let's go back to athletics.
Describe the routine for an Aggie on a home
football weekend. That was a great experience.
The weekend started when?
We had yell practice. Where? At the Grove. I was
there the night Bear Bryant got off the train. Oh,
describe that. That is one of my biggest
experiences at A&M. It was like March or April, as I
recall, which was late. And I remember we all went
to the Grove. I was there when Ray George. When I got
there, Ray George had come from Southern Cal or
UCLA and didn't do very well. And here comes Bear
Bryant. And I basically knew about his Kentucky
deal, but not that much. But we were all excited.
And we all go to the Grove. I remember it was at night
and in the evening. And he comes across, as I
recall, from, at least I thought he did, maybe he'd
been there earlier, but he came across from the
little depot over there. And he got up on that stage
at the Grove, and he takes off his coat, and he takes
off his tie, and he rolls up his sleeves, and he got
up there and told us how it was going to be. And I
thought that was the greatest thing I ever saw.
and everybody responded oh yeah very very just
went crazy uh and uh then that well we'd have yell
practice and that you know well number one in those
days we all had to make these uh signs on it was like
big uh
well there were like 10 by 20 sheets of lightweight
canvas kind of stuff.
And we would have to start making the sign
immediately for the following week's game. It was
some kind of cartoon. And I don't know how long they
did that. And it, you know, in some way degrade the
opponent and show Sarge or whatever. And those
kind of cartoons, by the way, ran in all the major
dailies in those days. They were famous for those
cartoons. And we'd start making them. As soon as
the game was over, we'd go back to the dorm and start
making them. And in theory, we were supposed to
have them finished that night. We'd take the old
one down and you'd hang them from the very top of the
building, get on the roof and hang it down. And But
anyway, Yale practice.
And it wasn't held at midnight? Oh, no. It was held
on Thursday, right after
the evening chow. Like, I don't know, 7, 7.30,
something like that. Then Saturday morning, what
time did the routine begin for home game? Well,
usually in those days we played afternoon games. I
guess they started at 1 o'clock. And the only thing
I remember specifically was that of course we'd
march into the game. But you had morning classes.
all had Saturday morning classes, and couldn't
wait to get out of those classes, going crazy over
there. And if your young lady came to town, you met
her before the game. Well, I never had that. Oh,
that didn't happen? Okay. It didn't happen to me.
So you marched in.
First sergeant collected. You got those sheet of
tickets when you registered. You paid for all your
athletes, and they'd collect your ticket, and
then as we marched in, there'd be a ticket taker
right there at that main gate to take all the
tickets. But, of course, they never counted them,
and we always had a couple of friends from out of
town in the middle of the ranks, you know, in some
kind of uniform going in for free. And we'd go
around the horseshoe and then go up in the stands.
Now they come in two hours early, they leave, and
then they come back. Now do you remember at any
football game during your time any great
celebrity general reviewing the Corps? Well, you
know, I guess generals didn't impress me that
much. I don't remember. I remember Alan Shivers
being there. Okay. And I'm sure if I went back and
looked at the annuals, there was some. Eisenhower
was president, and he had been at A&M earlier, but I
don't think he came during that era. I don't know of
anybody. Then during the game, did you and your
buddies, were there any pranks or jokes or
anything you remember? No, we were just standing
up and yelling. We all had to sit down on the
horseshoe as freshmen, and then you moved further
up toward the 50-yard line as you went. uh and then
of course if we we won we went down there like they
still do i guess get the the the l-eaters and and
haul them off to prexy's pond do they still do that
yes yes only the word prexy nobody uses anymore
they don't no they don't know that they don't even
know what that means you know the aggie land inn was
there yeah yes uh wasn't still a comparatively
nice place wasn't it I never went inside of it. The
outside, you know, is kind of a Swiss chalet kind of
thing. Yeah, I think important visitors still
stay there. All right, then after the Aggies won a
day game, if you and your buddies had a little extra
money, what would you all have done on Saturday
night? Go to the movie. Invariably went to the
movie.